Call for Research Papers
40th International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE 2024)
Utrecht Netherlands
https://icde2024.github.io

First Deadline: July 28th


==============================
Topics of Interest

We invite the submission of original research contributions in the following areas.
AI for Database Systems
Benchmarking, Performance Modelling, Tuning, and Testing
Cloud Data Management
Crowdsourcing
Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery
Data Models, Semantics, Query languages
Data Stream Systems and Edge Computing
Data Visualisation and Interactive Data Exploration
Database Security and Privacy
Database technology for AI
Database technology for Blockchains
Distributed, Parallel and P2P Data Management
Explainability, Fairness, and Trust in Data Systems and Analysis
Graphs, Networks, and Semistructured Data
Information Integration and Data Quality
IoT Data Management
Modern Hardware and In-Memory Database Systems
Query Processing, Indexing, and Optimization
Spatial Databases and Temporal Databases
Text, Semi-Structured Data, IR, Image, and Multimedia databases
Uncertain, Probabilistic, and Approximate Databases
Very Large Data Science Applications/pipelines
Workflows, Scientific Data Management
We also welcome any original contributions that may cross the boundaries among areas or point in other novel directions of interest to the database research community.
Important Dates

IEEE ICDE 2024 will have two rounds of research paper submissions with each round involving two rounds of reviewing to allow for revisions. Notifications dates are approximate. The time is for anywhere on earth.

First Round
Submission due: July 28, 2023 (Friday)
Notification for authors (Accept/Revise/Reject): September 1, 2023 (Friday)
Revision due: October 6, 2023 (Friday)
Notification to authors (Accept/Reject): November 3, 2023 (Friday)
Camera-ready copy due: November 24, 2023 (Friday)
Second Round
Submission due: November 24, 2023 (Friday)
Notification for Authors (Accept/Revise/Reject): December 22, 2023 (Friday)
Revision Due: January 19, 2024 (Friday)
Notification to authors (Accept/Reject): February 16, 2024 (Friday)
Camera-ready copy due: March 1, 2024 (Friday)
Notes or Research Papers

Manuscripts must be prepared in accordance with the IEEE format available at https://www.ieee.org/conferences_events/conferences/publishing/templates.html.
Research papers must not exceed 12 pages for the main text plus up to 4 pages for the bibliography. No appendix is allowed. Only electronic submissions in PDF format will be considered. Papers that do not follow the guidelines or are not within the scope of topics relevant to ICDE will be desk rejected.

A paper submitted to ICDE 2024 cannot be under review for any other conference or journal during the entire time it is considered for ICDE 2024, and it must be substantially different from any previously published work. Submissions will be reviewed in a single-blind manner. Submissions that are rejected in the first round of IEEE ICDE 2024 research track are not eligible for re-submission to the second round.

The best papers (as judged by the ICDE 2024 PC) will be selected for extended versions to be published in the IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering (TKDE). IEEE reserves the right to exclude a paper from distribution after the conference (e.g., removal from IEEE Xplore) if none of the authors attends the conference to present their paper.

Submission Site

Papers should be submitted using the Conference Management Tool https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/ICDE2024.


Reviewing Process

Review Quality: ICDE 2024 papers will be stringently reviewed with at least 3 reviews per paper. The review process will be coordinated by the meta reviewer resulting in the decisions to accept, reject, or revision. A constructive meta review will be provided based on the discussions about the paper. Paper revisions will go through an additional round of reviews before a final decision is made to accept or reject the paper.
Revisions: Papers will be invited to submit a revised version of their paper if the PC believes the papers can reasonably be improved within the revision time frame. Authors will have one month to prepare their revisions. The revision process is intended to be a constructive partnership between reviewers and authors. To this end, reviewers will be instructed to request revisions with specific requests.

Number of reviews: All papers will receive at least three reviews.

Inclusion and Diversity in Writing

We value Diversity and Inclusion in our community and profession. Both are important in our writing as well. Be mindful in your writing of not using language or examples that further the marginalization, stereotyping, or erasure of any group of people, especially historically marginalised and/or under-represented groups (URGs) in computing. Also be vigilant and guard against unintentionally exclusionary examples. Reviewers will be empowered to monitor and demand changes if such issues arise. Going further, also consider actively raising the representation of URGs in your writing. Diversity of representation in writing is a simple but visible avenue to celebrate and ultimately help improve our community’s diversity.
Conflict of Interest

During submission of a research paper, the submission site will request information about Conflicts of Interest (COI) of the paper’s authors with program committee (PC) members. It is the full responsibility of all authors of a paper to identify all (and only) PC members with potential COIs as per the definition provided on the submission site. Papers with incorrect or incomplete COI information as of the submission closing time are subject to immediate rejection.
Definition of Conflict of Interest (COI):

A paper author has a COI with a PC member when and only when one or more of the following conditions hold:
The PC member is a co-author of the paper.
The PC member has been a co-worker in the same company or university within the past two years.
The PC member has been a collaborator within the past two years.
The PC member is or was the author’s primary thesis advisor, no matter how long ago.
The author is or was the PC member’s primary thesis advisor, no matter how long ago.
The PC member is a relative or a close personal friend of the author
Authors need to submit their complete set of COIs for the paper to be considered for review.


General Chairs
	Malu Castellanos, Teradata, USA
	Yannis Velegrakis, Utrecht University, Netherlands

PC Chairs
	Gautam Das, University of Texas at Arlington, USA 
	BingSheng He, NUS, Singapore 
	Timos Sellis, Athena Research Center, Greece

